If your sales posts are your worst
performing posts, then good. I'm glad
you clicked on today's [music] episode
because I'm going to help you figure out
how to fix that. In case we've never met
before, hello. My name is Brock Johnson
and it's my full-time job to help you
figure out how to grow your small
business or brand [music] on social
media and specifically on Instagram. And
in case you're wondering, no, I don't
normally film my podcast outside, but we
are here in [music] beautiful Southern
California where I was born and raised,
visiting family, and I'm in town for a
Social Media Marketing World which is
taking place pretty soon and I'm
speaking at that event. And so I figured
why not touch grass and film this
podcast outside. And if you're not
already, definitely consider hitting
that subscribe button because every
single week here on the podcast, I
release at least one episode to help you
grow your small brand or business on
social media. Today's episode is brought
to you by ManyChat. I'll tell you more
about them later and you can read full
disclosure notes down in the description
below. But today we're specifically
going to be talking about making more
sales on Instagram. And if you are
anything like the 98% of other small
brands and business owners on Instagram,
then your promotional posts or your
sales posts or any post where you want
people to take an action off of
Instagram, like you want them to go
click a link, maybe it's because you
have a launch, a course, an ebook, maybe
you just have a new blog or a YouTube
video or a podcast that you want people
to go check out. Whatever that link is,
whatever reason it is that you want
people to leave Instagram, when you are
promoting it, when you are posting about
that thing, it is your worst performing
posts. And so I want to begin by saying
number one, you are absolutely not
alone. This is definitely the norm. And
number two, it's not because Instagram
is anti-small business. There's this
commonly held misconception out there
that Instagram is anti-small business,
that they don't want you to promote
links, or that they don't want you to
take people off of Instagram. And that's
just not true. Instagram recognizes that
creators and brands and small business
owners are the lifeblood of the
platform. And ultimately, if those
people, people like us, were driven off
of Instagram, then the average consumer
would have nothing to consume besides
ads, and then Instagram would die out
very, very quickly. And while you might
be sitting here thinking, Instagram
already is dying, Brock. It's not. If
you look at the data, if you look at the
statistics, Instagram is growing every
single month, every single quarter.
They're continuing to add millions of
users every month, hundreds of millions
of users every single year. And if you
look at the data in terms of where
people are making their purchases,
Instagram is actually number one.
Instagram beats TikTok, Facebook,
Twitter, pretty much any platform you
could think of, even YouTube when it
comes to the average customer value or
how much is each of your followers
worth. Instagram is number one according
to a study done by Carrot Financial.
Now, all that being said, you likely
feel very gaslit right now. You're
probably feeling like, Brock, no, it's
not. There's absolutely no chance
because every time I post about my
product or my offer, I get crickets. I
get my worst performing post of the
month. And I understand that. Like I
already said, you are not alone. And
there's really two key factors or
criteria that we need to talk about
today, and both of these could have an
influence on the number of sales that
you're making from Instagram. And those
two key factors are your strategy and
your tool. If you think about selling on
Instagram like catching a wave, a very
appropriate analogy to being here in
Southern California, even if you were
the best surfer in the world and you had
the best strategies or technique, if you
were surfing on a 2x4, you wouldn't
catch very many waves. Similarly, if you
took someone from rural Nebraska who has
never seen the ocean in their life and
you gave them the best surfboard, you
gave them Kelly Slater's best surfboard,
they probably wouldn't catch a wave
because even though they have a great
tool, they don't have the strategies or
technique necessary. And so today, we're
going to focus on both strategies and
technique because you might realize that
you're slightly lacking in one or maybe
even both areas. And in order to
facilitate our conversation today, I've
broken this down into five different
things that you should stop doing and
their five replacements or the five
things that you should do instead. And
so the first thing that you need to stop
doing if you want to make more sales on
Instagram is stop relying on the
built-in link options. Or to say it
another way, stop promoting your link in
bio and stop using the link sticker on
your Instagram stories. Now, this is
super counterintuitive and whenever I
bring this up, the immediate first
question is, why would I tell you not to
use them if Instagram literally created
them? Like why would Instagram not favor
something that they literally created?
Well, in order to understand the answer
to that question, we need to understand
how the Instagram algorithm actually
works. And I want to start by saying
that Instagram is not anti-link sticker,
nor are they anti-link in bio. You will
not be penalized for saying the phrase,
click the link in my bio, nor will you
be penalized for putting a link sticker
on your Instagram stories. But let's
think about what is happening when you
tell your audience to click on the link
sticker or to click on the link in your
bio. Your audience is faced with two
choices. Let's just say you made a great
sales post. It checks off every box that
we're going to talk about today. It uses
all of the strategies and techniques
that I'm going to share throughout this
episode. It is excellent. It's highly
engaging. It's like the best commercial
you've ever seen. But then at the end of
it, you say, click the link in my bio to
get signed up. Your audience, the
viewers of that post, now have two
choices. The first choice is pretty
obvious. If they're not interested,
they're just going to scroll, right?
Their choice is, well, I don't want the
thing. I'm not sold. I don't want to
buy. I'm not ready right now. Whatever.
And so they keep scrolling. That's their
first option and that option is always
there. Even the best post with the best
tools and the best strategies, there's
always going to be a certain amount of
people in your audience who are just not
interested and not going to buy. Let's
ignore them and let's focus on the
people who do want to buy, the potential
customers, the people who were won over
by your sales pitch. What they are now
faced with, the option that they are
going to choose, is to abandon your
post, scroll away from it, go to your
profile page, then go through your bio,
click on the link in your bio, and go
through the steps to purchase. Now, this
isn't even to mention, what if you have
like a link menu such as a Linktree or a
Stan Store in your bio? So then they're
clicking on the link in your bio and
they have to remember which of these 17
options was the one that I wanted and
then they have to click on it and then
they have to hope that the sales page
loads and they have to remember what
that discount code was that you said and
then they have to do all of this on
their own and there's no ability for you
to follow up or check in or provide
customer service. Let's ignore all of
those potential issues. They have, at
the end of the day, left your post. They
are interested in buying because you did
a great job. You did your job as a
marketer or small business owner or a
content creator convincing them that
they want to buy. But now, in order to
buy, they are not engaging with the
post. And it doesn't take a rocket
scientist or an algorithm expert to know
that if no one is engaging with your
post because either they're not
interested in your product and so
they're scrolling away, or they are
interested in your product so they're
clicking away. If no one's engaging with
your post, the algorithm is going to
think this post isn't very good. And so
immediately, I hope you recognize that
there is an issue here and I hope the
gears are turning in your head thinking,
okay, no one is engaging with the post.
That makes sense. It's not that people
hate my product. It's not that people
hate me. It's not that I'm ugly and
people just hate my marketing. It's that
you are using the wrong tools. You are
relying on the link in bio or the link
sticker on your Instagram stories in
order to distribute the link. Because at
the end of the day, you still need
people to click, right? Like you still
need people to go to your website. You
still need people to opt in or to sign
up for whatever that thing is. So from
now on, instead of telling people to
click the link in your bio, what I want
you to do instead is tell them to
comment a specific keyword. Basically,
in your posts, replace that line either
in your caption or at the end of your
post where you would normally say, click
the link in my bio or the link is in my
profile to learn more, replace that with
the phrase, comment blank and I will
send you blank. Comment guide and I'll
send you my free guide. Comment book and
I'll send you my ebook. Comment course
and I'll send you the link to the
course. Comment send and I'll send you
the link to my latest YouTube video. And
because you're telling your audience to
do that, they are now going to be
engaging with your post. Of course,
there is still group number one who
isn't interested. They're not sold by
whatever it is that you are selling and
they're just going to keep scrolling.
Like I said, we have to ignore those
people. They're always going to exist.
We can do a better job of selling to
them, but there's always going to be a
certain percentage of people who are
just not interested. But now, the people
who are interested, who in the first
example, they would have abandoned in
the post and gone and clicked the link
in your bio, they are now engaging with
the post. They are commenting the
specific keyword that you told them to.
And this in and of itself is more of a
strategy
change than a tool change. So let's talk
about how a tool change could fit into
this that keyword, you have two options
for yourself. You could either, number
one, manually respond to each of these
people. So for every person who comments
guide, you could then message them
individually, yourself, manually,
sending them the guide. Option number
two is to use a tool like ManyChat that
provides DM automation or direct message
automation to automatically send that
link to them. Now, I think DM automation
is the far superior option because while
you could send it manually, I think that
there are some problems presented.
Number one, you are faced with two
choices when you decide to manually
respond to people. And your choice is
either be glued to your phone 24/7/365
waiting for someone to comment and then
instantly you're trying to as quickly as
possible send them the message, the
link, whatever it is that they wanted
because you're a smart marketer and you
know that if you wait 10 minutes or an
hour, the likelihood that they make the
purchase then or the likelihood that
they sign up hours later is much less
likely. It would be like imagine if the
next time you went to buy something on
Amazon and you clicked buy it now, it
was like, hold on, wait 3 hours, someone
will message you in 3 hours and then
you'll be able to buy it. That would be
super frustrating. The alternative
option if you decide to manually send
these messages yourself is to say, I'll
get to it when I get to it. I'm not
going to be glued to my phone all day.
I'll respond whenever I have the
opportunity. Maybe you're thinking,
well, Brock, I would probably only get a
couple of comments. I don't have a very
large audience. I don't have a very
engaged audience. So if I tell people to
comment guide, I'll probably get two or
three, so whatever. I'll just respond to
them when I can. And again, you could do
that. However, if you're waiting hours
and hours, people are a lot less likely
to buy. There are so many studies and so
many statistics I could share with you
that show that every minute that passes,
and especially every hour that passes,
people become less and less likely to
actually make that purchase. So,
instead, the option that I would
recommend, like I've said already, is to
use DM automation. And the DM automation
tool that I recommend, that I've been
using for the last 5 years, that is also
the most popular DM automation tool in
the world with over a million active
users, the DM automation tool that is an
officially approved Meta partner, which
I want to pause and explain what that
means. There are a lot of tools that
access Instagram's API. You can kind of
think about this as like if Instagram is
a house, Instagram has intentionally
left its back door open, and they've
told some people, "Hey, here's how you
get to our house. You can go through the
side gate, and you can come in the back
door. You can kind of let yourself in."
That's how most tools and most sites and
most softwares that you're probably
using are accessing Instagram. Like if
you're using a scheduling app, or if
you're using an app that like finds
trending audios or something, it's
probably accessing Instagram's API in
the way that I just described. The
difference with ManyChat as an
officially approved partner is they
literally have a key to the house. They
have a way to let themselves in through
the front door, and they actually have
weekly meetings. This isn't an analogy,
they actually do. ManyChat has weekly
meetings with Instagram because
Instagram recognizes that ManyChat is
such an integral part of small
businesses and brands and creators
growing on the platform. So, it's
totally safe, it's totally allowed. I
actually asked Mosseri about this in our
conversation a year ago. If you haven't
watched our interview, I highly
recommend that you do. I'll link it up
down in the description below, but in
the interview, I asked him, "Hey, is
this allowed?" Because right before our
interview, there was some drama, people
saying, "Oh, it's not going to be
allowed, or it's going to be removed."
And so, I asked him directly, I was
like, "Hey, can we do this? Can we use
DM automation? Can we use ManyChat?" And
he was like, "Yeah, absolutely. You're
good to go." But again, all of this
exists to solve the problem that you
have an engaged audience, an audience
that wants to buy, but in order to buy,
they're not going to engage with your
posts. You are now simply allowing the
engaged audience who wants to buy to
engage in a more direct way. The other
benefits of this are one that I kind of
mentioned earlier, which is that when
you tell them to click the link in the
bio, there's multiple steps involved.
They have to click on your profile,
which is kind of a small button, maybe
they accidentally click on the audio or
the location details. Now, they're lost.
But let's say they successfully do click
on your profile, then they have to find
the specific link in your bio, which now
Instagram continues to add more and more
buttons to the bio, making it harder to
pick out which one is the link. Then
they click on the link, and then you
have a linked menu with 17 different
links in it. So, even if you're using
that system, it is still not necessarily
the best. It's actually so much more
intuitive and easier for the consumer
when you use DM automation because then
they don't have to go through this
multi-step process to find the link,
they just comment the keyword, and they
are instantly and automatically sent the
link through your DM automation tool. A
big concern that a lot of people have
is, "Oh my gosh, I don't want to
automate everything. I don't want to
lose my DMs, Brock. I don't want someone
to try to send me a message about one
thing, and they suddenly get a a message
about something else." So, you are
basically able to serve the link up to
them on a silver platter. Additionally,
something that we haven't even talked
about, something that I haven't talked
much about on my Instagram because it's
just a little bit too high-level of a
topic to talk about on organic social
media. It's a little bit too good or
deep or juicy of a topic to talk about
on a reel, but you'll understand this
because you're listening to a podcast,
is that with DM automation, you actually
don't even necessarily need a link or a
landing page. So, for the last 15 to 20
years, the way that you've gone about
doing business online is you try to get
people onto a landing page. A landing
page is a fancy term for like the
website where you put in your email
address, right? Where you sign up for
the thing, or you get a discount code,
or you're like, "Hey, I want this free
thing. Here's my email." That's a
landing page. It's also known as a sales
page. But something that you can do with
DM automation is you can actually
collect names and emails and even phone
numbers or any other data that you may
need, any other data that you might
normally collect on your landing page,
you can collect it right in the DMs.
It's so much more intuitive, and it's so
much easier, and you don't have to worry
about websites breaking. Myself
personally, oftentimes I will send
people links because sometimes I get
lazy, sometimes I use DM automation, and
I'm just like, "Hey, here, go click this
link and sign up." But when I do that, I
recognize that there's going to be a
certain amount of people, certain
percentage of people who the link isn't
going to work for, the page isn't going
to load properly, their browser is going
to time out, whatever. But instead,
something that I've started to do more
and more because it's just so much more
effective, is I ask them for their name,
their email, and all the other data that
I need in the DMs. And so, they're able
to respond right there. They don't have
to click on a link, they don't have to
go to a page, they don't have to have
anything load. They can send me their
email address, their name, whatever,
right in the DMs, and then I can have
that automatically connected on the back
end to my landing page or to my emails
flow or whatever it may be. So again,
they don't have to leave Instagram, they
don't have to go to a different site,
they're able to stay on Instagram, which
is where we want to stay, right? Getting
people to change, getting people to go
to a different platform, that takes a
lot more effort than allowing them to
just stay where they are, which in this
case is on Instagram. And all of that
can be facilitated through direct
message automation. And that is why
direct message automation significantly
improves pretty much every category. I
have yet to find a statistical category
that using DM automation doesn't
improve. And that's even with using the
exact same marketing, the exact same
posts. And so, yes, as you're listening
to this, you could actually like la la
la skip the rest of this episode, and
use all of your existing sales posts,
all of your existing promotional posts,
you could redo them or reuse them, and
instead of saying click the link in my
bio, you could just swap out the DM or
the call to action at the end of that
post to say, "DM me this word," or
"Comment this word," and I bet you'll
see an improvement in your link clicks,
in your engagement, your likes, your
views, your follows, all of that stuff
is improved almost automatically when
using DM automation. And like I
mentioned, yes, this works on both feed
posts where you can tell people to
comment a keyword, and it works on your
Instagram stories, so you can tell
people to reply to your story with a
keyword. And I know not a lot of y'all
go live on Instagram, but it can
actually be done on Instagram live as
well. So, if you go live on Instagram,
you could tell people to comment a
keyword while they're watching live, and
again, they'll instantly receive this
DM. There are a million other features
that I could go into, and a million
other things that I could talk about
today. If that's something you want, let
me know down in the comments. At the
time of recording this, totally honest,
I'm not quite sure where you're at in
terms of your DM automation experience.
On my Instagram, half of my audience is
using DM automation, and they know what
it is, and they're ready for advanced
topics, and half of my audience doesn't
even know what DM automation is. They've
never heard of it before. And so, let me
know down in the comments if you want me
to do a more advanced episode in the
future going into some more technical or
or more um advanced ways of using
ManyChat and DM automation cuz there's a
lot of tools that most people are just
hardly scratching the surface with. With
all that being said, the second huge
mistake that I see people making when
they are promoting or selling or
offering something on Instagram is
they're using generic graphic designs. I
think Canva is a great tool. Don't get
me wrong. Canva, if you're watching
this, Adobe, if you're watching this, I
think that you have great tools that
make life so much easier. However, I
think a lot of people have fallen into
the easiest option is the best option
for creating their promotional posts for
Instagram. And you end up creating these
really generic cookie-cutter looking
graphics. Don't get me wrong, they look
professional, they look really
well-made, but the problem is 5 to 10
years ago, a really professional,
well-made graphic was rare. It was the
exception. There weren't Canva templates
and downloadable presets and Adobe that
anyone could just use for free super
easily. Nowadays, it is super easy. And
so, because it's become so easy and so
widespread, it's lost its luxury, it's
not as premium anymore. It still looks
really nice, still looks really pretty
and professional, but it also kind of
feels corporate. It feels stale. It
feels lifeless. It lacks personality.
It's the same template that you've seen
70 other people use on Instagram, and so
it just doesn't connect in the same way.
It's not as engaging as it once was. And
this may be a little bit of a stretch,
but I feel like there's a similarity
here between the generic promotional
posts and graphic designs that we're
seeing on Instagram, and kind of this
current state of popular animated
movies. Where I don't know if again, I
don't know if this is too much of a
stretch, but if you've seen any animated
movies or a lot of animated movies in
the last few years, they all kind of
look the same. They all kind of look and
feel the same. Like you could see a
screenshot from one, and it could easily
be plugged into any of these other
movies cuz they're using such a
repeatable formulaic style. And they're
doing that because they realized that it
was cheap, it was easier, and it was a
style that people really responded well
to. But because of this, we've lost a
lot of variety in animation, and we've
lost a lot of uh depth and character and
uniqueness from different animation
studios. Think about back in the day
where you would like watercolor
animations and claymation and all these
different animation styles, and that's
why movies like Into the Spider-Verse
performed so well because they are
animated in a different, more unique,
comic book style way. So, I digress, I
didn't mean to go off on a rant or a
tangent there, but my point is simply
that using the pre-made templates, while
they look pretty and they look really
nice, and they're put together well,
they're boring. They're overdone.
They're very corporate. And so, instead,
of course, the replacement of this is to
create hyper-engaging content. Now, of
course, that's pretty much what I talk
about in every episode of this podcast.
How do you make better posts? How do you
make more engaging content? One thing
that I just want you to get in the habit
of is I want you to save your best
ideas, your most viral ideas, the stuff
that you're like most excited about. Try
to see if you could use those as
promotional posts rather than making the
promotional posts the things that you
kind of just like squeeze out, the stuff
you kind of just force. Instead, make
the stuff that you're most inspired
about, and turn those into your
promotional posts. But I understand that
that is a challenge, and so of course,
you can check out any of the other
episodes of this podcast. If you're not
already, I encourage you to subscribe. I
encourage you to check out any of those
other episodes, but I do have three
ideas for you that I want to share right
now that I have seen working really well
as highly engaging content that you can
specifically use to help you make more
sales. And the first one is the super
raw and real. If we just spend all this
time talking about the polished,
perfected, corporate graphic design, the
opposite of that is the raw, the real,
the authentic, the in-the-moment
content. And so I want you to just
experiment with this. I want you to try
this for yourself. I want you to sign up
for DM Automation. And then I want you
to create a post where you're in your
car and you're just filming one take. No
edits, no cuts. You have to do about 45
to 60 seconds of continuous speaking
with no filler words, no ums, ers, ahs,
and try to limit your pauses. But if you
can do that, and you can do it without
any cuts, again, no transitions, no
effects, no fancy editing, that will be
very honest, very authentic, very low
filter and low effort, if you will. And
I want you to at least start the video
by holding the phone in your hand. If
you want to set the phone up on the
dashboard or on your steering wheel, and
then finish what you're saying, that's
fine, but it needs to really start in
your hand. And this sort of raw, real,
unpolished content is, in general,
something that's performing much better
in 2026 because, again, the average
consumer, the average person in the
Instagram population is so over it with
the perfected, polished, overdone,
filtered, photoshopped crap that they're
looking for what is real. And what could
be more real than a video with zero cuts
that you filmed in your car? The second
idea is something that takes a lot more
time, energy, and effort, and it's
something that I honestly wouldn't
recommend for most of you, but for some
of you this might be what you've been
missing. And that is to go to the
opposite end of the spectrum and create
super polished, cinematic-level stuff.
Now, I know that this might sound kind
of contradictory to everything that I
was just saying, but if you can truly
make a cinematic masterpiece, ala
Spider-Man into the Spider-Verse, right?
Where that is a masterpiece. That is
something that took years of animation
and creativity and professional editing
to create. If you can create something
that is that unique and that is that
polished and that is that cool, well
then sure, people are going to watch.
But the level that you have to get to is
so much higher in 2026 than it even was
in 2023 or 2024 because of tools like AI
and because of the widespread use and
adoption of so many of these
professional tools, it's become much
harder to make even better content, but
it is still possible. And then the third
idea that I have for you is to use
creative formats. I think that a lot of
us have kind of fallen into the same old
routine where we're only creating two
kinds of reels. We're creating B-roll
reels where it's like 7 seconds long, it
has a trending audio, it has some big
bold hook on the top, and then it says,
"Read the caption." Or we're creating
talking head reels, which is kind of
like this podcast, right? Where it's
like a little bit professional, it's not
super polished and edited, but it is one
person talking directly to the camera
with a professional microphone or or
some sort of lighting or something, and
right, it's usually scripted, it doesn't
feel raw, it feels like you're listening
to a mini podcast. But there are so many
other formats and other ways that you
can create content and present your
education, your information, your
stories, whatever they may be. And so
with that being said, here are three
creative formats that you could try to
boost your sales. The first one relies
on a strategy called gamification, where
you basically turn your content into a
game. And specifically, I want you to
create a scavenger hunt. And there's two
ways that you can do this. The first
popular way that I've seen this done is
by hiding messages in your reel. So the
most popular is you hold up a sign that
says, "Don't look in the upper left
corner." And then when people look in
the upper left corner, there's another
line that says, "Don't read the third
hashtag." And then when they read the
third hashtag, it says, "Don't read the
pinned comment." And then when your
audience reads the pinned comment, it's
like, "Whatever you do, do not read the
second line in my bio." And then they go
to your bio, and the second line of the
bio is like, "Haha, you did it, you won
the game, you ended the scavenger hunt.
Here's 15% off our spring sale." In the
example that I just gave, there's also a
reverse psychology angle because you're
telling people, "Don't look here, don't
look there." And so it's making them
like even more tempted to look there,
but you could also just say,
"Read the upper right corner, read the
third line of the caption, read my bio."
And it's just fun, it's different than
the norm, and it kind of breaks the
pattern that most people expect with
reels. The second creative format that I
would suggest for making more sales on
Instagram is to use what's called a hook
swap. Something we've talked about here
on the podcast before, but it's
essentially using a pre-existing viral
video, a popular, already trending clip,
and then seamlessly transitioning from
said clip into your own reel. And the
key to making a good hook swap is that
the frame, or whatever's on the screen
at the end of the first video, matches
or is very similar in terms of
composition and what's on the screen to
the first frame or the beginning of the
second video. That's really how you
create a seamless hook swap. And so for
those of you who struggle to come up
with hooks and struggle to make your
sales content engaging, like the whole
time I've been talking today, you're
like, "Okay, Brock, but like I just
struggled to even talk about what I'm
selling. Like I feel so boring when I
talk about it." I would encourage you to
use a hook swap. And if you want an
entire library, we have a free library
of 40 of them. And if you DM me the word
swap on Instagram, I will send you that
library, and it will actually be
facilitated through DM Automation, so
you'll get a little taste of what that
looks like. You'll be able to send your
email address right in the DMs. Um and
then I will be able to send that library
to you. Again, my Instagram is Brock 11
Johnson, so just DM me on Instagram with
the word swap, and I will send you that
library of content. And then the third
creative format that I want to suggest
for you, specifically for making more
sales on Instagram, is to do what's
called cloning content. Now, I am not
talking about AI clones. I am not a fan
of creating an AI twin avatar of
yourself to sell. That's not what we're
talking about here. What I am talking
about here is, and maybe you've seen
these before, they're really creative
reels where there's like two of you on
the screen, or maybe even three of you
on the screen at the same time. And
there's multiple of you because you're
playing the role of different people.
Maybe one of you is the beginner and one
of you is the expert. One of you is the
novice and one of you is the
professional. One of you is how you used
to be, one of you is how you currently
are. And so it's a great, powerful way
to kind of show your audience, "Hey,
here's what someone without my products
is or does or looks like or acts. And
here's what someone with my products
does or is or looks like or acts like."
The third mistake that I see so many
people making when they go to sell on
Instagram is they're doing feature-based
selling. Feature-based selling is
talking about really talking about all
of the numbers. It's talking about all
of the features and different components
of your product or your offer. So it's
talking about, "Oh, hey, I have a
12-week coaching program, and every week
you get two coaching calls with me, and
you get one office hour session. And
throughout this process, you're going to
get 150 templates for your workout
routines." It's like you're focusing on
all of these numbers and people glaze
over when you focus on these things. And
I understand why you do it. It's because
as a business owner, you love these
details, and you understand that it's
these details that are going to make the
difference for people, but they don't
understand that yet. Instead, what you
have to do is to do what's called
benefit-based selling. Benefit-based
selling is focusing on what's in it for
them. What are the outcomes, the
transformations that your customers or
your students or your clients are going
to have when they click on the link,
when they sign up, when they put in
their email, or when they become a
customer. And so it's going to take a
little bit of a re-shaming and a
re-framing of how you think about your
products, but I want you to really lean
in to the benefits rather than the
features. And one of the most famous
examples of this is Apple. Apple has
great marketing, let's face it. And when
they first launched the iPod, one of the
things that they did was they put up
these billboards that said, "1,000 songs
in your pocket." Now, that could have
been said, "16 GB of storage" or "3-hour
battery life" or however many files you
could actually fit on that iPod. But
those would have been features. And so
what Apple decided to do instead is,
again, to say, "1,000 songs in your
pocket." That tells us what the benefit
is. That makes it clear that if I can
fit 1,000 songs in my pocket, I could go
anywhere. I could listen to all my
music. I could take my entire catalog. I
can listen to every song I've ever heard
in my life and take it with me on the
go. And so again, I want you to re-frame
how you're thinking about how you're
positioning and how you're selling
whatever it is that you're selling, and
I want you to focus on the benefits
rather than the features. The fourth
mistake that I see a lot of people
making is what I'm going to call GRQ
selling. And GRQ is an acronym that
stands for get rich quick. And I know
this probably isn't you. Like this
doesn't apply to you. It probably
doesn't apply to anyone listening, but
I'm going to talk about it anyways. Get
rich quick selling is I'm selling
something because I took a course or
signed up for coaching or I bought
something, and they're teaching me how
to sell the thing. Like business coaches
coaching business coaches on how to
coach business coaches to coach other
business coaches. It's kind of like a
pyramid scheme, if we're being honest,
and it's get rich quick, right? It's
people who are teaching you how to make
money from home, but they've never made
money from home themselves. Ultimately,
I believe that you don't need to be an
expert, you don't need to have like a
college degree in whatever it is that
you're selling, but you need to have
experience, right? If you're going to
teach people how to run their first 10K,
then you need to have either run your
first 10K or you need to have at least
coached multiple other people to run
their first 10K. You need to have
experience either doing the thing or
coaching the thing. If you have neither
and you have just learned about, you
have learned about growing a business or
you've learned about running a 10K or
you've learned about losing weight or
you've learned about these things, then
it's going to be really, really hard for
people to trust you, and that's
ultimately what we're getting at here is
that when you are selling these things
that you don't necessarily have
experience with, the audience feels like
they don't trust you, and it feels like
you're just trying to get rich quick.
You're just trying to sell something
because it sounds easy to sell, and
you're not really in it for the
transformation, you're more so in it for
the transaction. And so this is really
just a shift in how you approach things.
This is service-based selling rather
than sales-based selling. And again, I
know this is something that probably
doesn't apply to you. Like you've
probably got it. Your heart's in the
right place, your mind's in the right
place, but I needed to be real for a
moment and just tell you that if you are
just in it to make money, it will be
hard to make money because your audience
will be able to tell. The BS detector,
the sniffer on their face is a lot more
keen and a lot better at uh detecting
your BS now than it was even just 5 10
years ago. And then finally, with all of
that being said, one of the most
commonly overlooked strategies or
mistakes that people are making on
Instagram is they're not selling enough.
And so the opposite of that is you need
to sell more. I think most people think,
"Oh, I I don't want to overwhelm people.
I don't I don't want to talk about my
product too much. I don't want to sell
too often. Oh, I don't want to be
salesy. I don't want to be that person.
I don't want to sound desperate."
You're a business owner. It's your job
to talk about your business. It is your
job to promote your business. Every
single time you hold yourself back,
every single time you delete a reel,
every single time you have an idea for
something you want to talk about and
then you end up not talking about it,
your competition is out there talking
about their stuff. Your competition is
out there posting, out there growing,
and out there siphoning customers and
followers away from you. And so, I want
you to get in the habit of overselling.
I want you to get in the habit of
overpromoting. I I guarantee that if you
try to do that, 99% of you won't even
get there. I guarantee even if you post
about your stuff as many times as you
can, you still won't get to the point
where you're annoying and overwhelming
your audience. One of my favorite
examples of this is when Justin Bieber
launched Swag 2, his most recent album,
and he or his team, whatever, they
posted about the album in some way or
another 97 times. 97 times to his feed
in a 5-day period. Even the biggest
believers on the planet would have been
overwhelmed if they saw all 97 of those
posts. But something that we need to
understand about how the algorithm works
is that the algorithm only shows people
the content that they would be most
interested in seeing. And so even as
someone who is a big Justin Bieber fan
myself, I probably only saw maybe five
of those posts or seven of those posts,
like one a day, maybe two a day over
that 5-day period. But he was posting 97
times during the album's launch to drive
attention, to make it feel like, "Oh my
gosh, the album is everywhere," and to
increase his odds of any of those posts
reaching my feed. If he had only posted
one or five times, the likelihood that
all five of those would end up on my
feed is very low. But because he's
posting more, he has more at bats, he
has more opportunities, he has more
chances for one of those posts to blow
up, one of those posts to do well, or
simply for the algorithm to decide that
I might be interested in one of those
posts. And so I want to encourage you to
post about your product more. I promise
you you will be okay. And if someone is
going to unfollow a business or business
owner or a brand because that brand or
business owner or business is posting
about their brand or their business, why
was that person following in the first
place, right? Like don't let the door
hit you in the butt. See you, buddy. And
so please, do not shut up about what it
is that [music] you have to offer on
Instagram. Thank you so much for
watching today, and as always, happy
networking.
>> [music]